# Fully-Controlled-Robot-Car

The advent of new high-speed technology and the growing computer capacity provided realistic opportunity for new robot controls and realization of new methods of control theory. This technical improvement together with the need for high performance robots created faster, more accurate and more intelligent robots using new robots control devices, new drives and advanced control algorithms.
Robot is a system that contains sensors, control systems, manipulators, power supplies and software all working together to perform a task. Designing, building, programming and testing a robot is a combination of physics, mechanical engineering, electrical engineering, structural engineering, mathematics and computing. In some cases biology, medicine, chemistry might also be involved. A study of robotics means that students are actively engaged with all of these disciplines in a deeply problem-posing problem-solving environment.
    Automatic Vehicle Location (AVL) is an advanced method used to track and monitor any remote vehicle equipped with a software unit that receives and transfers signals through GPS satellite. AVL is a combination of Global Positioning System (GPS) and Geographic Information System (GIS) that provides actual geographic real time position of each vehicle. The entire transmission mechanism of AVL setup depends on GPS satellite, a receiver on the vehicle, a radio system and controller based tracking for dispatch. The radio communication system is generally the same as cellular phone network. The two most common AVL systems are like GPS based and Signpost based. The Signpost-based AVL system was used earlier but with the development of modern satellites GPS used technology is more use now.
This Automatic Vehicle Tracking system is now widely used in a variety of market system that offers excellent communication or vehicle tracking solution. 
This project is aimed to track the vehicles that which mean to locate the position of the vehicle. The location of the vehicle is indicated using GPS (global positioning system) technology. Communication link is made possible through a GPS receiver. GPS will give the information of parameters like longitude, latitude. 

Thus, in order to control the robotic car using GSM, the user has to send the predefined messages to the modem. When the modem receives these predefined messages, it intimates the same to the microcontroller. The microcontroller upon receiving the information from the modem acts in accordance to the message, making it a highly automated application. Here the communication takes place between GPS receiver and GPS satellite. GPS satellite continuously tracks the missing vehicle and the position of the vehicle is send to the controller from GPS receiver. From the received position data the exact position of the vehicle can be seen on google earth through a front end software.

